Add user documentation (#78)
silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager: docs/en/userguide/index.md

title: Session Manager
summary: Allow members to manage and revoke access to multiple login sessions across devices.

# What does the session manager module do?

> The session manager module allows members to manage and revoke access to multiple login sessions across devices. Each login to a member is tracked and can be viewed from the profile page. Logins can also be revoked from here.

Reviewer: The session manager module allows members to manage (see active and revoke) login sessions across devices used to access the CMS using their login credentials. Each login to a member's account is tracked and can be managed from their profile page.

# How to use it

## Getting started

Make sure you have the [SilverStripe Session Manager](https://addons.silverstripe.org/add-ons/silverstripe/session-manager) module installed

## Logging in

> When you log in with the module installed, a login session record will be created at the time of the login and associated with your current session.

Reviewer: When logging in with "Keep me signed in for 30 days" selected, a session will remain active on that device for the full 30 days unless it is terminated prior to that allocated timeframe. Without this selected a session will only last for **_xyz_** hours. 

[notice]Note: It is advised that the "Keep me signed in" functionality is not used unless they are the only person in control of or using the device used to access the CMS.[/notice]

![Logging in](_images/logging-in.png)

## Viewing login sessions

> In order to view login sessions you have to go to your profile after logging in. Every currently valid login session will be listed under `Sessions`.

Reviewer: In order to view login sessions once logged in, navigate to your profile by clicking on your name in the left hand CMS menu. Every valid and currently active login session will be listed under `Login sessions`.

> ![Silverstripe CMS log in form](_images/logging-in.png)

Reviewer 2: The screen shot still says 90 days.

![Viewing login sessions](_images/viewing-login-sessions.png)

There is various data associated with every login session that can be used to identify the device that is logged in:

* Browser
* Operating System
* IP Address

> * Last Active time

Reviewer: Last active time

* Sign in time

[notice]
Note: Members can only view access for their own profile. Nobody else will have access to view your sessions.
[/notice]

## Revoking access

> To remove access for a session associated with a device, click the `Log Out` link next to the session you want to remove. You will then be prompted to confirm the deletion to avoid accidentally removing access:

Reviewer: To remove access for a session associated with a device, click the `Log **o**ut` link next to the session you want to remove. This session will be immediately removed and anyone viewing the CMS using this session will need to log back in.

![Revoking login sessions](_images/revoking-login-sessions.png)

> Once confirmed the login session will be removed and the session / device associated with it will no longer be logged in and will thus have to log back in.

Reviewer: Replaced by sentence above

> To remove access for a session associated with a device, click the *_Log out_* link next to the session you want to remove. This session will be immediately removed and anyone viewing the CMS using this session will need to log back in.

Reviewer 2: Sorry ... I got confused about the proper to do ***bold italic*** in markdown.

```suggestion
To remove access for a session associated with a device, click the ***Log out*** link next to the session you want to remove. This session will be immediately removed and anyone viewing the CMS using this session will need to log back in.
```

> ![Confirmation screen for revoking a login session](_images/revoking-login-sessions.png)

Reviewer 2: We just nuked that confirmation screen.

## Expiry

> Login sessions have an expiry of 90 days by default. After this, the login will no longer be valid and the user must log in again. Only valid sessions are visible when viewing your sessions.

Reviewer: Login sessions have an expiry of 30 days by default. After this, the session will no longer be valid and the user must log in again. Once a session has expired it will be removed from the list of active login sessions.

title: Session Manager
summary: Allow members to manage and revoke access to multiple login sessions across devices.

# What does the session manager module do?

> The session manager module allows members to manage (see active and revoke) login sessions across devices used to access the CMS using their login credentials. Each login to a member's account is tracked and can be managed from their profile page.

Reviewer 2: This bit seems to be superfluous and complicate the sentence

```suggestion
The session manager module allows members to manage (see active and revoke) login sessions across devices used to access the CMS. Each login to a member's account is tracked and can be managed from their profile page.
```

Reviewer 2: I realise this suggestion contradict @clarkepaul comment https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-session-manager/pull/78#discussion_r650587740

I'll differ to his opinion.

Reviewer: Your version (the shorter) is better :)

# How to use it

## Getting started

> Make sure you have the [SilverStripe Session Manager](https://addons.silverstripe.org/add-ons/silverstripe/session-manager) module installed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure you have the [Silverstripe CMS Session Manager](https://addons.silverstripe.org/add-ons/silverstripe/session-manager) module installed on your website.
```

Reviewer 2: If this is aimed at CMS Users, how are they meant to know if session manager is installed or not?

Reviewer: True, maybe something like... if Session Manager is installed you will have a section in your profile area labelled "Login sessions".

## Logging in

> When logging in with "Keep me signed in for 90 days" selected, a session will remain active on that device for the full 90 days unless it is terminated prior to that allocated timeframe. Without this selected a session will only last for xyz hours.

Reviewer 2: I thought we reduce the "Keep me signed in" period to 30 days?

```suggestion
When logging in with *_Keep me signed in for 30 days_*" checked, a session will remain active on that device for the full 30 days unless it is terminated prior to that allocated timeframe. Without this option checked, a session will only last for the duration of your browser session.
```

@clarkepaul Do you think the avrerage CMS User will understand what a "browser session" is?

Reviewer: How about ... a session will only last if your browser session remains active.

Reviewer 2: You still have `xyz hours` there.

Our style guide says that ***Keep me signed in for 90 days*** should be bold and italicised.

[notice]

> Note: It is advised that the "Keep me signed in" functionality is not used unless they are the only person in control of or using the device used to access the CMS.

Reviewer 2: I had to read this sentence a couple times to understand what we were trying to communicate. Can we have something a bit more simple like this.

```suggestion
You should not used the "Keep me signed in" functionality when working on a device shared with other users (e.g.: internet café computer or a public library workstation).
```

I don't think we need the "Note:" bit since we are already styling this has a notice. I think adding a few example make it clearer what we are referring to.

Reviewer: I like your version. Should be "You should not use" not "You should not use**d**"

[/notice]

> ![Logging in](_images/logging-in.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Silverstripe CMS log in form](_images/logging-in.png)
```

## Viewing login sessions

> In order to view login sessions once logged in, navigate to your profile by clicking on your name in the left hand CMS menu. Every valid and currently active login session will be listed under `Login sessions`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to view login sessions once logged in, navigate to your profile by clicking on your name in the left hand CMS menu. Every valid and currently active login session will be listed under ***Login sessions***.
```

> ![Viewing login sessions](_images/viewing-login-sessions.png)

Reviewer 2: The screen shot was taken via the Security Administration interface. Most users won't have access to this CMS section and the instructions specifically tell users to use the Profile menu.

Also, it's still using the "Device" wording.

Can we get an updated screen shot from a content editor account?

```suggestion
![List of login sessions viewed through the Silverstripe CMS member profile](_images/viewing-login-sessions.png)
```

There is various data associated with every login session that can be used to identify the device that is logged in:

* Browser
* Operating System
* IP Address
* Last active time

> * Sign in time

Reviewer 2: We should use "sentence case" over "title case". When listing independent items, the sentence preceding the bullet list should include a full stop.  Please refer to the [Silverstripe Writing Style Guide](https://silverstripe.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PROD/pages/506364107/Silverstripe+Writing+Style+Guide) and [Writing product user help or guides](https://silverstripe.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PROD/pages/520290326/Writing+product+user+help+or+guides)

```suggestion
There is various data associated with every login session that can be used to identify the device that is logged in.

* Browser
* Operating system
* IP address
* Last active time
* Sign-in time
```

[notice]

> Note: Members can only view access for their own profile. Nobody else will have access to view your sessions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A member can only view login sessions for their own profile. No one else will have access to view your sessions.
```

[/notice]

## Revoking access

> To remove access for a session associated with a device, click the `Log out` link next to the session you want to remove. This session will be immediately removed and anyone viewing the CMS using this session will need to log back in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To remove access for a session associated with a device, click the *_Log out_* link next to the session you want to remove. This session will be immediately removed and anyone viewing the CMS using this session will need to log back in.
```

Reviewer 2: Do we want to mention the confirmation modal here?

Reviewer: We have a story to remove it, need to confirm it makes the cut though.

> ![Revoking login sessions](_images/revoking-login-sessions.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Confirmation screen for revoking a login session](_images/revoking-login-sessions.png)
```

[notice]

> Note: Members can only revoke access for their own profile. Nobody else will have access to remove your sessions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A member can only revoke access for their own profile. No one else will have access to remove your sessions.
```

[/notice]

> ## Expiry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Login session expiry
```

> Login sessions have an expiry of 90 days by default. After this, the session will no longer be valid and the user must log in again. Once a session has expired it will be removed from the list of active login sessions.

Reviewer 2: What session are we talking about here? The remember me session?

Author: The login session, which is literally what it says.

Reviewer 2: That's sentence is not really clear because it doesn't make a distinction between sessions where the user has checked the "remember" me option which will last for 30 days and the session where the "remember me" option was not checked which will not last 30 days.

We already discuss this higher up in the document. I think we can probably remove this paragraph and its header.

Author: Done.

Reviewer: Perhaps... 
If the "Keep me signed in for 30 days" option is selected at login, the session will automatically expire once the 30-day limit has been reached and will be removed from the list of active login sessions.

If the "Keep me signed in for 30 days" option is not selected at login, the session will end when the browser session ends due to the likes of inactivity or by closing the browser.

Reviewer 2: Here's what the paragraph higher up says:

> ## Logging in
>
> When logging in with "Keep me signed in for 30 days" selected, a session will remain active on that device for the full 30 days unless it is terminated prior to that allocated timeframe. Without this selected a session will only last for xyz hours.

This seems to be duplicating the information @bergice just removed.
